{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 MS Sans Serif;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Verdana;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red128\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\b\f0\fs28 Microsoft Halo for the PC Readme File - Halo Custom Edition\par
\fs24 April  2004\b0\fs20\par
\'a9 Microsoft Corporation, 2001\endash 2004. All rights reserved.\par
\par
\cf1\b For details specific to this Halo Custom Edition release, please see Section K below.\par
\cf0\b0\par
\b Welcome to \i Halo for the PC\i0 !\par
\b0\par
This file contains information to help you troubleshoot issues with \i Halo\i0\'ae\i  for the PC\i0 . You can find information on Microsoft\'ae Product Support Services in the printed or online manual.\par
\par
\b Note:\b0  If Halo came installed on your computer as an OEM version, contact the manufacturer of the computer or other hardware it was bundled with for product support. Refer to the documentation that came with your computer or hardware for the product support telephone number.\par
\par
For the latest support and troubleshooting information, please visit http://www.microsoft.com/games/halo/support.asp. \par
\par
\b\fs28 CONTENTS\par
\b0\f1\fs20\par
\b\f2 A.\tab System Requirements\par
B.\tab Installation\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\b0\f0 Installing Halo\par
Installing DirectX 9.0b\par
SafeDisc Issues\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b C.\tab Getting Help\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\b0 Viewing the Online Print Pieces\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b D.\tab Command Prompt\par
E.\tab Configuration Issues\par
F.\tab 3D Card Issues\par
G.\tab 3D Card Drivers and Manufacturers\par
H.\tab Audio Troubleshooting\par
I.\tab Additional Multiplayer Information\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\b0 Default Ports\par
Network Settings\par
Direct IP Connection\par
Checking for Updates\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar J.\tab Multiplayer Troubleshooting\par
K.\tab Post-Release Update History\par
\b0\f1\par
\b\f0\fs28 A. System Requirements\par
\b0\fs20\par
Halo requires a personal computer with the following minimum requirements.\par
\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720\f3\'b7\tab\f0 Multimedia personal computer with a 733 MHz or higher processor.\f4  \par
\pard\fi-360\li720\f3\'b7\tab\f0 Windows 98 Second Edition, Windows Me, Windows 2000 Service Pack 1, or Windows XP.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 128 Megabytes (MB) of RAM.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 1.3 GB of available hard disk space.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 8\'d7 CD-ROM drive.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 32 MB 3D hardware-transform-and-lighting-capable video display.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 Keyboard and Microsoft Mouse or compatible pointing device.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 Sound card and speakers or headphones.\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 DirectX 9.0b (included on CD; see below for installation instructions).\f4  \par
\f3\'b7\tab\f0 56 Kbps modem or LAN for online network play. Broadband required to run a server.\f4  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\par
\b\f0\fs28 B. Installation\par
\b0\fs20\par
If your computer does not automatically install Halo after the CD is inserted into the CD-ROM drive, perform the following procedure.\par
\par
\b To install Halo manually\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\tx360\b0 1.\tab On the Windows taskbar, click \b Start\b0 , and then click \b Run\b0 .\line\par
2.\tab Type \b\i x\i0 :\\setup\b0 , where \i x\i0  is the letter of your CD-ROM drive, and then click \b OK\b0 .\line\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360 For example, if your CD-ROM drive letter is D, type \b d:\\setup\b0 .\b\line\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\tx360 3.\tab Click \b Install\b0 , and then follow the instructions that appear on the screen.\line\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\par
\fs24 Installing DirectX 9.0b\par
\b0\fs20\par
If for some reason DirectX 9.0b was not installed with the game, use the following procedure to install it manually.\par
\par
\b To install DirectX 9.0b manually\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\tx360\b0 1.\tab Insert the Halo Disc in the CD-ROM drive.\line\par
2.\tab In Windows Explorer, double-click the CD-ROM drive and then the \b DirectX\b0  folder.\line\par
3.\tab Double-click \b Dxsetup.exe\b0 , and then follow the instructions that appear on the screen.\line\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li360 You must restart your computer when installation is complete.\line\par
\pard\nowidctlpar If you experience video or sound problems using DirectX, always check with your video or sound card manufacturer for the latest DirectX-compatible drivers, or go to http://support.microsoft.com/support/directx/ for the latest troubleshooting information.\par
\par
\b\fs24 SafeDisc Issues \par
\b0\fs20\par
The Halo copy-protection software, SafeDisc, requires that the game be installed from the CD; you cannot copy files from the CD to the computer and then install from the computer's hard drive. \par
\par
\b SafeDisc with Software\par
\par
\b0 SafeDisc is incompatible with some software, which includes the following.\par
\par
\b McAfee (Network Associates) Nuts & Bolts:\b0  Nuts & Bolts causes the game to fail if the Bomb Shelter utility is in a certain configuration. The following steps allow SafeDisc-protected products to be used:\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li360\tx360 1.\tab Maximize Bomb Shelter.\line\par
2.\tab In the \b Bomb Shelter\b0  dialog box, click \b Properties\b0 .\line\par
3.\tab In the \b Error Protection\b0  group, click \b Advanced\b0 .\line\par
4.\tab In the \b Advanced Properties\b0  tab, deselect the \b Write Protect VMM\b0  check box.\line\par
5.\tab Click \b Apply\b0  or \b OK\b0 , and then click \b OK\b0  on all subsequent screens.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\b\fs28 C. Getting Help\par
\b0\fs20\par
You can get help for Halo in the following ways:\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\f3\'b7\tab\f0 For an overview of the game as well as for information about getting started and playing the game, see the Halo printed manual. The manual is also available in PDF format on the Halo CD.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\cf2\f3\'b7\tab\f0 Visit the Support Center Games Web site (http://support.microsoft.com/?pr=gms) to view top support issues, product-specific content, and other related resources for playing games. Additionally, to help you troubleshoot issues associated with game setup, performance, multiplayer networking, sound, video, or your game controller, visit one of the Troubleshooting Resource Centers available on the site. \cf1\b Please note that Microsoft support is only provided for issues with the retail game. For any questions specific to Halo Custom Edition, please visit the forums at www.gearboxsoftware.com\cf2\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\pard\cf0\b\fs24 Viewing the Online Print Pieces\b0\f1\par
\f0\fs20\par
Adobe\'ae Reader\'ae (http://www.adobe.com/) allows you to view and print the online versions of the Halo manual, which are located in the \b Manuals\b0  folder as .pdf files. \par
\f1\fs24\par
\f0\fs16 Copyright \'a9 2003 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.\f1\fs24\par
\par
\f0\fs16 Adobe, the Adobe logo, and Reader are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries.\f1\fs24\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0\fs20\par
\b\fs28 D. Command Prompt\par
\b0\fs20\par
You can run Halo from a Windows command prompt (e.g., C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Games\\Halo\\Halo.exe). The following is a list of arguments you may use running Halo from a command prompt entering \ldblquote halo.exe \endash\i argument\i0 .\rdblquote\par
\par
\b -?\par
\b0 Displays a list of all arguments.\par
\par
\b -nosound\par
\b0 Disables all sound.\par
\par
\b -novideo\par
\b0 Disables video playback.\par
\par
\b -nojoystick \par
\b0 Disables joystick/gamepads.\par
\par
\b -nogamma\par
\b0 Disables adjustment of gamma.\par
\par
\b -useff\par
\b0 Forces the game to run as a fixed function card.\par
\par
\b -use11\par
\b0 Forces the game to run as a shader 1.1 card.\par
\par
\b -use20\par
\b0 Forces the game to run as a shader 2.0 card.\par
\par
\b -safemode\par
\b0 Disables as much as possible from the game.\par
\par
\b -window\par
\b0 Runs the game in a window.\par
\par
\b -width640\par
\b0 Forces the game to run at 640x480.\par
\par
\b -vidmode w,h,r \par
\b0 Forces the game to run at width, height, refresh rate.\par
\par
\b -adapter \i x\i0\par
\b0 Forces the game to run fullscreen on a multimon adaptor.\par
\par
\b -port \i x\i0\par
\b0 Server port address used when hosting games.\par
\par
\b -cport \i x\i0\par
\b0 Client port address used when joining games.\par
\par
\b -ip \i x.x.x.x\i0\par
\b0 Server IP address used when you have multiple IP addresses.\par
\par
\b -screenshot\par
\b0 Enables the "Print Screen" key to generate screenshots\par
\par
\b -timedemo\par
\b0 Runs four movies and writes out timedemo.txt.\par
\par
\b -console\par
\b0 Enables the debugging console.\par
\par
\b Notes:\b0  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\f5\'a7\tab\f0 A number of these command prompt arguments are used by PSS to troubleshoot problems.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-360\li720\f5\'a7\tab\f0 Many of the command prompt arguments mirror functionality available from within the standard Halo user interface.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\b\fs28 E. Configuration Issues\par
\b0\fs20\par
Known hardware and operating system configuration issues are listed in this section. For issues with specific 3D cards, see section F, "3D Card Issues."\par
\par
For assistance with top performance issues, visit http://support.microsoft.com/?pr=gmsperf.\par
\b\par
Performance may be poor after standby or suspend mode:\b0  If you manually or automatically put your computer on standby or suspend mode while playing the game, performance may be poor when you come out of standby or suspend mode and resume the game: music and sounds may not be heard, transitions may be choppy, or the game may hang. To resolve, restart the game.\par
\par
\b Enable direct memory access (DMA) in your IDE controller on Windows 98 Second Edition and Windows Millennium Edition: \b0 When you enable DMA on your computer, you improve the game performance and stability. \par
\par
\pard To enable DMA: \par
\pard\fi-360\li492\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1\tx720 1.\tab Close all programs that are running on your computer. \par
\pard\fi-360\li492\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 2.\tab Click \b Start\b0 , point to \b Settings\b0 , and then click \b Control Panel\b0 . \par
3.\tab Double-click \b System\b0 . \par
4.\tab Click the \b Device Manager\b0  tab. \par
5.\tab Click the PLUS SIGN \b (+)\b0  next to \b Disk Drives\b0 . \par
6.\tab Click \b IDE/Disk (hard drive)\b0 , and then click \b Properties\b0 . \par
7.\tab On the \b Settings\b0  tab, select \b DMA\b0 . \par
8.\tab Click \b OK\b0 , and then click \b OK\b0  again. \par
9.\tab Restart the computer.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\par
NOTE\b0 : When you enable DMA, you increase the access speed to the CD-ROM drive and the hard disk. Some drivers do not support DMA access. If the DMA check box remains selected after you restart your computer, DMA access is supported.\par
\par
\b Run in server mode, rather than workstation mode in Windows 98 Second Edition and Widows Millennium Edition:\b0  When you enable server mode, you improve game performance.\par
\pard\par
To run in server mode: \par
\pard\fi-360\li490\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1\tx720 1.\tab Right-click on \b My Computer\b0  and select \b Properties\b0 . \par
\pard\fi-360\li490\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 2.\tab Click the \b Performance\b0  tab. \par
3.\tab Click \b File System\b0 . \par
4.\tab Select \b Network Server\b0  as the typical role of the PC. \par
\pard\sl288\slmult1\b\par
\pard\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 Make sure that your speaker mode is set to match the type of speaker output on your computer:\b0  This situation might occur if you switch back and forth from listening to headphones and listening to 4.1/5.1 speakers.  Having the incorrect speaker mode set will cause 3D sounds to be heard incorrectly or not at all.\par
To set your speaker mode:\par
\pard\fi-576\li576\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 1.\tab Click \b Start\b0 , point to \b Settings\b0 , and then click \b Control Panel\b0 .  \par
2.\tab Click on \b Sounds and Multimedia\b0  (Windows 98/Me) or \b Sounds and Audio Devices\b0  (Windows 2000/XP).\par
3.\tab Under \b Speaker settings\b0 , click on the \b Advanced\b0 .\par
4.\tab Select the speaker setup that matches your current speaker setup.\par
5.\tab Click \b OK\b0 , and then click \b OK\b0  again.\par
\pard\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 If your sound card also came with its own software for setting speaker settings, ensure that these settings are also correct.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\highlight3\b\par
\highlight0\fs28 F. 3D Card Issues\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx0\tx720\b0\fs20\par
Halo only supports DirectX 9.0b-compliant video cards. It is good practice to always install the latest certified drivers for all of your hardware.\par
\par
For assistance with top video issues, visit http://support.microsoft.com/?pr=gmsvideo.\par
\b\par
ATI Radeon 9800 PRO 128:\b0  You may experience inconsistent graphic performance with textures if you set the Mipmap Detail Level in the ATI Direct3D Control Panel to any setting except High Quality.\par
\par
\b NVIDIA Video Cards and FSAA Modes:\b0  You may experience difficulties running Halo using NVIDIA video cards in any of the FSAA modes. If you are having a problem, you should disable the FSAA mode for the NVIDIA video card.\par
\par
\b Via Motherboard Chipsets:\b0  If you have a Via brand motherboard, you may need to update to the latest \ldblquote 4-in-1\rdblquote  motherboard chipset drivers to avoid crashes. \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\fs28 G. 3D Card Drivers and Manufacturers\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\b0\fs20\par
Make sure that you have the latest drivers from the manufacturer of your video card. Many video issues will be resolved if you install your video card's latest drivers. Halo\i  \i0 may not properly detect some older video cards because their video drivers are not DirectX 9.0b\f1 -\f0 compliant. Contact your video card manufacturer for updated drivers, or install the latest reference drivers for your video board. Note that many reference drivers are not supported by the chipset manufacturer. Listed below are some common video card manufacturers' Web sites.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\par
NOTE: \b0 Use Windows Update (http://windowsupdate.microsoft.com/) to ensure that you are using the latest drivers and have the latest updates to your operating system.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\par
For specific video card drivers, visit the manufacturer\rquote s web site.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\fs28 H. Audio Troubleshooting\par
\cf2\b0\fs20\par
Check with your sound card manufacturer for the latest DirectX-compatible drivers.\par
\par
Following are the known audio issues and workarounds:\par
\cf0\b\par
Users running Windows 98Second Edition and Windows Me:\b0  You should run Windows Update to ensure that you have downloaded all critical updates as well as all the \i recommended\i0  updates. Otherwise, you may have sound problems such as the weapon volume shifting in and out. \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\b\par
\pard\tx360 Aureal Vortex:\b0  The audio may not function with Aureal sound cards.\~To resolve this issue, turn off the hardware acceleration. From the Start menu, point to \b Settings\b0 , and then choose \b Control Panel\b0 . Double-click \b Sounds and Audio Devices\b0  and select the \b Audio\b0  tab. Click the \b Advanced\b0  button in the Sound Playback section and then click the \b Performance\b0  tab. Move the Hardware Acceleration slider to None and click \b Apply\b0 . \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\par
Hercules Game Theater XP sound card in Windows 98Second Edition:\b0  Stuttering and sound distortion may occur using the\b  \b0 Hercules Game Theater XP sound card and Windows 98 Second Edition. See \ldblquote Enable direct memory access (DMA) in your IDE controller on Windows 98 Second Edition\rdblquote  in section E, \ldblquote Configuration Issues.\rdblquote  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720 Hercules Game Theater XP sound card in Windows XP Professional:\b0  The audio may not function correctly at all times with the Hercules Game Theater XP sounds card. For example, grenade sound effects may play too low. You should make sure you have installed the latest \cf2 DirectX-compatible drivers for your sound card\cf0 .\par
\par
\b Realtek ALC650 sound card in Windows XP Home:\b0  Halo may not function correctly using the Realtek ALC650 sound card in Windows XP if you enable EAX sound in the game. \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b Montego II Quadzilla sound card in Windows 2000: \b0 The audio may not function correctly at all times with the Montego II Quadzilla sound card. You should make sure you have installed the Montego II Quadzilla Windows NT 4.0 drivers. Information on installing the drivers is available from http://turtlebeach.com.\par
\par
\b\fs28 I. Additional Multiplayer Information\par
\b0\fs20\par
\pard\b\fs24 Network Settings\par
\b0\fs20\par
To insure the highest level of multiplayer game quality, you should specify your connection type in Network Settings. Not only does this setting determine the maximum number of players you can host on a game, but it also determines the amount of data that you will receive from other servers when you are connecting to a multiplayer game as a player. \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar To specify your network settings:\par
\pard\fi-360\li490\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1\tx720 1.\tab On the Halo main screen, click \b Settings\b0 .\par
\pard\fi-360\li490\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 2.\tab Click \b Network Setup\b0 . \par
3.\tab Select the appropriate connection type.\par
4.\tab Click \b OK\b0 .\par
\pard\par
\b\fs24 Direct IP Connection\par
\b0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0\fs20 You can join an Internet multiplayer game using a specific IP address for the host server. The host address can be a computer name or numerical IP address.\par
\par
To join a game using Direct IP:\par
\pard\fi-360\li490\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1\tx720 1.\tab On the Halo main screen, click \b Multiplayer\b0 .\par
\pard\fi-360\li490\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 2.\tab Click \b Direct IP\b0  under Join. \par
3.\tab Enter the IP address for the host server.\par
4.\tab Enter a password (if required).\par
5.\tab Click \b Join\b0  to join the game. \par
\pard\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1 Notes: \par
\pard\fi-360\li720\ri360\sb100\sa1\sl288\slmult1\tx720\f3\'b7\tab\f0 Halo remembers the last host address you typed in.\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\ri360\sb100\sa1\tx720\f3\'b7\tab\f0 If there is no game at the specified IP address, then a \ldblquote Connection Failed\rdblquote  dialog box is displayed. When you click OK, you are returned to the Multiplayer screen. Try entering the IP address again, using the steps above. If that doesn\rquote t work, you should contact the person hosting the game to verify the IP address for the host server.\par
\pard\b\fs24\par
Checking for Updates\par
\b0\fs20\par
Each time you join or create an Internet multiplayer game, Halo automatically checks for the latest update on the Internet. A dialog box is displayed indicating that Halo is \ldblquote checking for updates.\rdblquote  If there is an update available, your current game is shut down, the update is downloaded and installed, and the game is restarted. \par
\par
If you choose to cancel out of your update, then you are returned to the Multiplayer screen. The next time you attempt to join or create an Internet multiplayer game, the process starts all over again. If there is a Halo update available, you must allow the update to download and install if you wish to continue. If you wish to manually update your game, please visit http://www.microsoft.com/games/halo/default.asp.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\b\fs28\par
J. Multiplayer Troubleshooting\par
\cf2\b0\fs20\par
This section describes the known multiplayer issues and workarounds.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\cf0\par
\b Ports Used by the Game\par
\pard\b0 Halo connects to the Internet on the following ports by default:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa10\tx720\f5\'a7\tab\f0 2302 (UDP)\emdash Game host listens on this port\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa10\f5\'a7\tab\f0 2303 (UDP)\emdash Game client connects to host through this port\par
\pard\sb100 Halo will run from behind most routers and Network Address Translation (NAT) devices. If you have difficulty connecting from behind a router, you should consult your router documentation to ensure that the ports listed above are not blocked for your PC.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\par
\pard Halo checks for updates via HTTP in the same way a Web browser would. If you use Windows XP SP-1, Halo can use an auto-detectable proxy server on your network, but does not currently support manually-set proxies. If your network requires you to manually set your proxy server, please visit www.microsoft.com/games/halo to check for updates, which you can download manually. \par
\par
To check your proxy settings:\par
\pard\fi-576\li706\ri360\sb100\sa1\tx720 1.\tab Launch Internet Explorer\par
\pard\fi-576\li706\ri360\sb100\sa1 2.\tab From the \b Tools\b0  menu, click \b Internet Options\b0 .\par
3.\tab Click \b Connections\b0 .\par
4.\tab If you connect to the Internet manually, double-click on the appropriate connection in the list at the top. If you connect via a Local Area Network (LAN), click \b LAN Settings\b0 .\par
5.\tab Under \b Proxy server\b0 , verify that the settings are correct for proxy server that you or your network administrator has set up.\par
\pard\li130\ri360\par
\pard If you are connected to the Internet and can reach http://www.microsoft.com, for example, your proxy settings are correct.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\par
\b In non-team games (such as Slayer), all vehicles are spawning in front of the Red Base:\b0  You must select two of each type of vehicle to ensure that one vehicle gets placed in both the Red Base and Blue Base. In non-team games, the default base is Red when vehicles are assigned. If there is only one type of vehicle spawned, then only the Red Base will be populated with vehicles.\par
\par
\b Damage-confirmation beep:\b0  You may want turn off the damage-confirmation beep in multiplayer games. To do this, you must use the Debug Console. To activate the Debug Console, run Halo with the \b -console\b0  command prompt (see the Command Prompts section above), press \b ~\b0  in the game to enable the Debug Console, and then type \b should_play_multiplayer_hit_sound 0\b0 .\par
\b\par
\pard Unable to join a Direct IP multiplayer game hosted behind a NAT device or router, or on an Internet Connection Sharing (ICS) Server in Windows 98 Second Edition, Windows Me, and Windows 2000: \b0 You need to join multiplayer games that are hosted behind a router or on an ICS server via the Gamespy Lobby.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\par
\b Unable to join a multiplayer game with an Internet Connection Sharing (ICS) Client on Windows 2000 or Windows XP:\b0  You may have difficulty joining a multiplayer game if a person using a Windows 2000 or Windows XP ICS client has joined and exited that game before you attempt to join it.\par
\b\par
Unable to browse for games on a local area network (LAN) on a machine with two network adaptors in Windows XP: \b0 You may not be able to browse for multiplayer games on a LAN if the two network connections are not configured correctly. The Internet must be configured on the first network connection, and the LAN needs to be configured on the second internet connection. For more information on configuring a network connection, click \b Start\b0 , and then click \b Help and Support\b0 . \par
\par
\b Microsoft Base Station MN500:\b0  Halo does not offer automatic NAT negotiation of UPnP devices such as the MN500. If you have difficulties connecting to games or hosting a server behind this device, you should manually set it to forward the required ports\emdash 2302 and 2303 (UDP) by default\emdash to the IP address of the game computer behind the router.\par
\par
\b\fs28 K. Post-Release Update History\par
\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\fs20 Halo Custom Edition 1.0 (Halo CE)\par
\b0 Halo CE 1.0 contains all features and fixes through the 1.04 release of the retail version of Halo PC. In addition to these, Gearbox has worked to add a collection of additional features which are offered in this special, optional, and unsupported "Halo CE" release. Halo CE installs in parallel with the Retail edition of Halo PC so that they can be updated independently of each other. You may have both versions installed on your computer at one time. Per the license agreement, you may \ul not\ulnone  have them installed on two separate computers at the same time.\par
\ul Differences between Halo PC (retail) and Halo PC CE Edition\par
\ulnone The primary feature addition of Halo CE is the ability to play user-created multiplayer maps, which will be created by the Halo Editing Kit, available for download separately. Due to the necessary changes in map-file format to support this feature, this update is too large to be a "required" download for users of the retail game, and so Halo CE is offered as a separate, optional edition. For the same reason, the single-player content (and thus Campaign mode) is not available for download as part of Halo CE. Please continue to play the retail version of the game for access to Campaign mode.\par
Also due to these changes in map file formats, all players in a game must be using the same version (retail or CE) - users in one version of the game will not be able to see or join games hosted by users of the other.\par
\ul Additional Features & Fixes in Halo CE 1.0\ulnone\par
\ldblquote Fast Shaders\rdblquote  \endash  Bypasses \cf2 the D3DXEffects portion of the DirectX api resulting in increased rendering performance. The enhancement is native to Halo CE and does not require any settings adjustments. The fixed function pipeline does not use the D3DXEffects system so it won\rquote t receive a performance increase.\cf0\par
\cf2 F2 Rules \endash  A new in-game rules screen that displays all server-set rules for the current game. This function is mapped to the \ldblquote F2\rdblquote  screen by default, but can be changed in the controls settings.\cf0\par
\cf2\ldblquote Show Player Names\rdblquote  \endash  A switch that toggles the displaying of names over teammates heads. Toggling this feature on will permanently display all friendly player\rquote s names regardless of where they are in the map. Toggling this feature off will restore back to normal Halo name displaying behavior. This key defaults to \ldblquote F3\rdblquote  but can be reassigned in the controls settings.\cf0\par
\cf2 MP hit sound adjust \endash  Added a console variable to adjust the volume of the multiplayer hit sound. You must be running the game with the \endash console switch. Bring down the console and enter Multiplayer_hit_sound_volume X where X is a number between 0 and 1.\cf0\par
User created content \endash  Halo CE has the ability to play user created content. In order to get a map to display in the game\rquote s UI, simply drop the map in the \ldblquote Maps\rdblquote  directory. If you try joining a game playing a map you do not have, you will be prompted about the missing map and sent back to the menu. To create custom Halo content, please download the Halo Editing Kit - which is separate from the Halo CE download.\par
Devmode support \endash  Using the -devmode switch on the command line in conjunction with -console will give you access to many of the cheats\\debug tools used in the creation of Halo. These commands are largely untested a have the potential to cause an unstable game environment. This mode has been enabled so that content creators can test their maps. This mode is not intended for use online and thus the ability to join games has been removed.\par
Client networking fix \endash  A fix in networking providing a slight reduction in player \ldblquote warping\rdblquote  on client machines.\par
MP exploit fix \endash  The \ldblquote print screen\rdblquote  MP exploit has been addressed.\par
Map cycle hang bug fixed \endash  Fixed bug that would people to randomly hang during a map cycle.\par
Flag icon fix \endash  flag icons now display properly when a person is carrying a flag in a vehicle.\par
Fixed Rocket Warthog bug \endash  Rockets fired from the Rocket Warthog are now more accurate.\par
Removed \ldblquote stickiness\rdblquote  from Ghost \endash  The sticky effect caused by Ghost projectiles has been removed. \par
Dedicated Server Features (complete list can be found at the Dedicated Server Forum of www.Gearboxsoftware.com)\par
Server Chatting \endash  Servers can now chat to clients\par
Dedicated server logging\par
Dedicated server message of the day \endash  they dedicated server can now display a message of the day in the new F2 Rules screen.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b Halo PC 1.03\b0\par
Halo PC 1.03 is our first update to address some of the most important issues that have arisen since the game was released. Our goal with this patch was to 1) improve the quality of the online experience for gamers and 2) address the most frequent issues gamers run into. This update is also our first opportunity to improve our networking architecture with some of our learnings from our hours of online play. Here is a summary of what's new in Halo PC 1.03.\par
Note:All updates to the Halo Dedicated Server are documented in the Halo Dedicated Server Readme file, which is available here:\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "/Games/HaloPC/page.aspx?section=FAQInfo&subsection=Support&page=dedserverreadme"}}{\fldrslt{\cf4\ul Halo Dedicated Server 1.03 Readme}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20  \par
\b Improving the Quality of the Online Experience for Gamers\b0\par
\ul Addressing Team Killing\ulnone\line Servers now have a complete team killing / banning system that should significantly reduce team killing online. The concept is simple: team-kill a number of time and you will automatically be banned from the server for a period of time set by the server administrator. Because team kills can be accidental, the concept of grief also exists: following a team-kill, if you don't team-kill again for a period of time, you are forgiven for your team-kill. These settings are customizable by the server administrator(s) using server console commands.\par
In addition to the system above, players are no longer penalized for being killed by someone on their team and respawn time penalty for a team-killer is multiplied by the number of teammates he killed, rapidly leading to very long respawn times for team killers.\par
\ul Improving the Quality of the Online Experience\ulnone\line We've made a number of updates and bug fixes to our networking architecture, the most important one being specifically in how we transfer / predict player's movement / position as well as the action of reloading your weapon. While going into the details of these changes is beyond the scope of this document, the result should be a smoother online game experience across the variety of connections to the Internet. \par
We made the following changes to our user interface:\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Servers name now supports 65 characters for dedicated servers and 32 characters for client-hosted servers and now accepts an extended character set. \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Chat text length has been extended to 64 characters \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}In-game scoreboard now displays every client's ping \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}In-game scoreboard now displays your # of assists \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Server port numbers are displayed accurately throughout their range \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\line Additional Online Multiplayer New Features:\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Teams are now persisted for the next game when map cycling occurs \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Map Reset: It's now possible to restart the current game without requiring the server to map cycle. \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Assault: We now have a timer to keep track of how much time is left to your offense / defense round \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Assault: Alongside this timer, we also have an "Offense" and "Deffense" indicator to quickly inform you of your role \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\line\b Addressing the Most Frequent Issues Experienced by Gamers\b0\par
Many users have reported problems with Halo PC when using 3rd party software to force the refresh rate of their monitor. We have changed how we handle this situation in our code to seamlessly fall back to the forced refresh rate. \par
A significant number of reported game crashes are related to an external library called keystone.dll. We have updated this library to address the most common failures. These crashes would usually occur when changing screen resolution, when starting or quitting Halo PC, when chatting in a multiplayer game or when using ALT-TAB to minimize Halo PC and return to Windows. \par
\b Additional Bug Fixes\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Halo can now be bound to a specific IP address using the -ip command line agrument. (facilitating multiple NIC support for Halo Dedicated Servers) \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Halo can now read/write data files to a user specified folder using the -path command line argument. This is particularly useful for Halo Dedicated Servers but also be be used for users whose "My Documents" folder is remapped to a UNC path. It is an advanced option and using it will force you to manually move saved games and multiplayer gametypes. \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Online Multiplayer: Telefrag message is now appropriately replicated. \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Online Multiplayer: Minor fixes to switching teams in kill-in-order games (scorew will now remain accurate) \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Online Multiplayer: Minor fixes to the end of the game state (new players now have to wait for the game to be restarted before being admitted to the server) \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Online Multiplayer: Fix for clients flashlight states when joining games \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Online Multiplayer: Vechicles won't respawn if they have a projectile (such as a plasma grenade) attached to them. They will wait for the projectile to be removed. \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Online Multiplayer: Minor fixes to using teleports for high-latency connections \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Sound: Fix for cinematic dialog being cut out on certain cards when enabling Audio Hardware Acceleration in the Audio Settings. \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b Halo PC 1.02\b0\par
With Halo PC 1.02, we are adding support for multiple instances to our dedicated server, enabling us and the community to roll out many more servers for gamers. We are also introducing client support for RCon (Remote Console), allowing dedicated server operators to have control over their servers running in data centers. For more information on the Halo PC Dedicated Server and the Remote Console, please consult the Halo PC Dedicated Server Readme file located here:\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "/Games/HaloPC/page.aspx?section=FAQInfo&subsection=Support&page=dedserverreadme"}}{\fldrslt{\cf4\ul Halo PC Dedciated Server Readme}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20\par
We have also released the Halo PC Technical and Performance FAQ, which answers most frequenty asked technical questions about Halo PC. This FAQ is located here:\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "/Games/HaloPC/page.aspx?section=FAQInfo&subsection=Support&page=techperfFAQ"}}{\fldrslt{\cf4\ul Halo PC Technical & Performance FAQ}}}\cf0\ulnone\f0\fs20\par
\b Here is a summary of the changes with Halo PC 1.02:\b0\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Halo PC Dedicated Server Support for multiple instances \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Halo PC client support for RCon (remote console) to dedicated servers \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\line Bug Fixes:\par
\pard{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf6\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Timedemo doesn't check memory usage consumption with every frame rendered (see Halo PC Techincal and Performance FAQ for more info) \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}After running timedemo, the last saved checkpoint is not altered anymore \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Multiple minor bugs fixed in the Halo Auto-Updater application \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Fixed an issue in keystone.dll that was causing certain configurations to potentially crash when chatting in multiplayer games \par
{\pntext\f6\'B7\tab}Fixed minor card specific rendering glitches \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\line\b Halo PC 1.01\b0\par
After Halo was released to manufacturing but before it arrived on store shelves, the Halo team discovered a potential crashing issue when playing Halo multiplayer online. In order to guarantee the best possible experience for our customers we have issued an update that addresses this issue. Before you can play Halo multiplayer online you will need to allow this update to install through the auto-install feature of Halo or by running haloupdate.exe from your Halo installation folder.\par
This is the only issue that was addressed with Halo PC 1.01\par
\b Halo PC 1.00\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx720\par
}
 